The President:
Hi, everybody.
Over the past couple months,
most of the political
headlines you've read
have probably been about
the government shutdown
and the launch of
the Affordable Care Act.
And I know that many
of you have rightly
never been more
frustrated with Washington.
But if you look beyond
those headlines,
there are some good things
happening in our economy.
And that's been my top priority
since the day I walked
into the Oval Office.
After decades
in which the middle class
was working harder and harder
just to keep up,
and a punishing recession
that made it worse,
we made the tough
choices required
not just to recover from crisis,
but to rebuild on
a new foundation
for stronger, more durable
economic growth.
Five years later,
we have fought our way back.
Our businesses have created
7.8 million new jobs
in the past 44 months.
Another 200,000 Americans
went back to work last month.
The American auto industry
has come roaring back
with more than
350,000 new jobs -
jobs churning out
and selling the high-tech,
fuel-efficient cars
the world wants to buy.
And they're leading the charge
in a manufacturing sector
that has added jobs for the first time
since the 1990s -
a big reason why our businesses
sell more goods and services
"Made in America"
than ever before.
We decided to reverse our
addiction to foreign oil.
And today, we generate more
renewable energy than ever,
more natural gas than anybody,
and for the first time
in nearly 20 years,
America now produces more oil
than we buy from
other countries.
We decided to fix a
broken health care system.
And even though the
rollout of the marketplace
where you can buy affordable plans
has been rough,
so far, about 500,000
Americans are poised
to gain health coverage
starting January 1st.
And by the way,
health care costs are growing
at the slowest rate in 50 years.
And one more thing:
since I took office,
we've cut our deficits
by more than half.
And that makes
it easier to invest
in the things that create jobs -
education, research,
and infrastructure.
Imagine how much
farther along we could be
if both parties
were working together.
Think about what we
could do if a reckless few
didn't hold the economy
hostage every few months,
or waste time on dozens of votes
to repeal the
Affordable Care Act
rather than try
to help us fix it.
In the weeks ahead,
I'll keep talking about my plan
to build a better bargain
for the middle class.
Good jobs.
A good education.
A chance to buy
a home, save, and retire.
And yes, the financial security
of affordable health care.
And I'll look for any willing
partners who want to help.
Because of your hard
work and tough sacrifices
over the past five years,
we're pointed in
the right direction.
But we've got more work to
do to keep moving that way.
And as long as I'm President,
I'll keep doing
everything I can
to create jobs,
grow the economy,
and make sure that
everyone who works hard
has a chance to get ahead.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.